hello everyone welcome to the ipfs
weekly pop or Monday November 4th
hello it's a great day and we're gonna
start with an iDevice weekly update and
then move on to any other items if folks
have feel free to add some topics in the
side band and if there's anything cool
that's happening or anything happening
in the wider community and ecosystem
that people want to discuss all right
weekly update looking across stuff
that's happening um
there I guess maybe if I present this
that'll be easier for people otherwise I
look like I'm listing things out of
nowhere when really I'm just reading
some in front of me alright so here we
are there is a new go I profess as a
library tutorial that de'vide actually
put together despite having had his
fingers in J's IP Westland historically
as he's working on helping make test
ground phenomenal tests grande is our
new kind of network simulation testing
tool that we plan to use to validate and
subsequent releases of IP of us so that
we can compare things like all right how
did performance change between master
and prod as me you know iterated on bit
swap functionality so that is launched
and super cool so I believe this yeah
this is our first one of using globe
Cabezas library so if that is something
that you want to do or want to see how
others do you can go check that out
Jas oh 39 was released there's a lot of
cool stuff in there and if you want to
know more ask Alex or Alan generally
profiles theirs in browser requests
throttling there's lots of stuff going
us is hard at work on a number of
performance improvements but two in
particular that moved over the past week
or two was some testing of add
performance has uncovered that there's
something wonky going on with with
badger on Windows versus Linux either
one of them is too fast
one of them is too slow and so we are
working with the Badger folks to
identify which one is which
whether it is that sync rights on window
do not work and therefore are so great
are lightning fast because they're not
doing what they expect them to do or the
ones on linux are actually introducing
unreasonable latency in which case
awesome
maybe we can improve that and and get
those latency gains and so either way I
think there's some some once we once we
identify that there's some improvements
that fall out of it but and hopefully
make ads in general much faster which is
really exciting on the other side of
things Dirk has been hard at work on
improving bit swap and adding some some
new functionality that makes it way way
faster but he isolated out a specific
set of changes that made really large
improvements for when there's disk read
latency and these were merged into glide
because faster and maybe all II can tell
me whether or not they've actually or
Hector can tell me whether or not
they've actually been rolled out on
cluster but the aim is to roll them out
there so that it can actually start
improving the experience of people
hitting the ipfs community gateway soon
instead of when we hit o top 504 go ipfs
if either of you know feel free to jump
in but i know that that is the aim to
increase cluster throughput you deployed
it to cluster yeah yeah bit swap
improvements not the Badger part the
Badger part is still in investigation
more space cool so that that
is not happening on the performance side
on the documentation side we have a new
Docs content writer who's working with
us welcome John if you're watching this
call and we're also working on a beta
version of IP miss documentation and
there's a v2 repo in the works that's
getting some stuff transferred over with
a new information for protector and a
lot of other cool stuff so feel free to
drop a note there if you have ideas for
how we can improve a refractor
documentation and finally there's a
discussion about Lib p2p ODOT for and
how we can mitigate its lack of support
for or or decision to not support
intentionally 1040 1024 bit keys I'm
going forward and so worried if you use
1024 bit keys in your application today
please reach out because we're going to
be migrating away from that I think I
give us for a long time it hasn't been
using this and so there's there was
discussion and meetings last week about
how to make sure that we're not breaking
any one as we upgrade to what is it 2048
bit keys across the board cool
anyone else have weekly update topics to
share what one thing I don't know if
ladle is on the call next I can't see in
if you right now but one thing that and
I'll like the issue here that we've been
hitting in the companion world is are
the changes that that chrome has made to
MIT for a manifest b3 as they're calling
it which is at this point it caused some
things like delayed reviews of the
Chrome extension this is starting to
show up in broader tech news tech press
as well because these are some pretty
controversial and restrictive changes to
the capabilities that that add-ons have
when running inside Chrome but I just
wanted to like that you know kind of let
everybody know that over on the
companion side of things this is I can
cut both the
I'll go challenge to be able to make a
code base that supports and ships on
several different browser vendor
platforms that have differences but also
might be an ongoing challenge for us as
chrome starts to restrict the type of
capabilities that we need to be able to
get a little level access to network
requests the kind of things that we need
to be able to understand what it's
asking for are PFS resources or how to
compute direct say a failed request to
and ipfs resource all the different you
know things that we do to be able to use
companion to augment the basic browser
browser experience so i'll add a link in
there but it's something that is
becoming you know more and more of a
challenge for everybody
writing extensions but definitely
specifically affects our ability to ship
in chrome at this point but no other
browsers that I know of or have
announced an adoption or support for
these type of restrictions so it should
be chrome only at this point I can just
add additional a concern on top of that
what's the Dziedzic said is that it not
only like slows down our release cycle
so let's say there's a bug which we
fixed it may take a few days up to a few
weeks to get to push this change to
users of Google Chrome that's that's the
main concern the separate concern is
that we will basically have to refactor
most of our browser extension using
those new api's and the problem is the
Google Chrome Web Store is so sort of
like throttling or making it harder for
us to publish our extension the
explanation is that we are using those
powerful API switch we should not use
and use something else the problem is
the manifest be free does not provide a
replacement which is as powerful or as
capable as existing manifest v2 so
we are being punished for using existing
KPIs and we are not provided with a
replacement it is even more unfortunate
for adblocks we are using similar API
sets a block so we are impacted by the
same problem I guess huh giving like
Google Chrome just released like a paid
ad block feature not that's surprising
what they're making it much harder for
other adblock features I did not want to
go there but yes I'm an ex-googler I can
I can throw shade so fair enough
tisk tisk chrome team not cool I think
on the counter like the current API is
really difficult to optimize for
performance like they have to ask every
extension for every request
would you like to redirect this request
that has a performance impact so to play
the advocate for the unpleasant it's not
a completely unreasonable performance
optimization it just shows that they're
not interested in the extensions
community oh yeah I totally agree if you
look at details of implementation then
you there is more than you can tell it's
what's the rationale but yeah I agree
thank you for the update super useful
all right a hectare you're gonna walk us
through get cloning and building
something with a global DB tell us more
[Music]
so if anyone wants to run those comments
and start it that would be great
otherwise this was just joined when
Molly was saying that there was plenty
of time to do things therefore maybe we
can do the other points and people have
time to
to run through that and at the end we
can check if anyone - to join and if
that's working for them we are so
trusting Oh hold on um alright future do
you want to go in the meantime well some
of us installed oh sure
my my I already have the code and it's
now building so maybe by the time I'm
done with my little bit it will be built
so I will share my screen if you stop
sharing
you
may it's the same thing
here
yeah there so I wanted to give a quick
introduction to a project that we're
going to be doing possibly over the next
couple of months called the activist
browser design guidelines as we've been
working with several browser vendors to
implement IP fest natively there are
some things that come up when you learn
ipfs resource in a browser that are
different from when you load in it
should be resources the browser the fact
that you can cryptographically here and
find the content you've got like profess
is really nice that's something we
should communicate to people the fact
that that content can come from anywhere
this is also interesting and has some
side effects that we also want to
communicate to people as well some of
those are really good I mean the come
the content could come really fast
because it might come from all those
people in the same room with you but
also might if they're not in the same
way with you it might take a little
longer so there are a set of things that
when you load an IP FS resource into the
browser there's a navigation event in
the address bar that you need to be able
to communicate to that people that are
living it and we're working to come up
with a set of patterns guidelines iconic
like Anna graphic treatments a survey of
existing address bar practices to be
able to communicate a set of guidelines
and recommendations for people who
implement ipfs in a browser this is
something that we can use when we're
talking to browser vendors and giving
them a clear set of instructions or at
least an understanding of what the
things to consider and and discuss in
their design teams their security and
privacy teams as they move forward with
implementation but also you know a clear
set of use cases and a you know deep
discussion of the concerns that need to
be talked about when in standard spots
so when we talk with groups like the w3c
or the ITF around I professed we can now
have a clearly communicated body of
knowledge around the decisions that they
have to make around both availability of
capabilities things like lower level
Network API access kind of like the
stuff that we were just talking about we
go to Chrome but all
newer paradigms around browser to
browser communication so you know the
one of the optimal scenarios in that
like offline networks situation you have
a bunch of people in a room together and
there have resources on ipfs that they
could share with each other
not having to run a server but being
able to do that from directly from the
browser and to be able to share with all
those other browsers it's a really
powerful use case so this is a project
that we have a designer room will
hopefully be joining us for a couple
months to do some of this work might
reach out and talk to some of you and
we'll be sharing this work probably in
the future iteration of this meeting
what so does concluded we have things to
share but more they thing wanted the
community and the core team of people
that are watching this meeting every
week to have a view into how we're
thinking about these next phases of
browser integration and how we're
setting ourselves up to be able to have
that have that router conversation with
the people that are in browser in web
standards world thanks
Thank You dieter that's awesome
um as everyone's gotten a chance to go
through Hector's thing where shall we
hop to Alan
my name is doing something but I'm not
certain what um cool I just accepted
allowing incoming connections does that
mean you're on my computer director
anything but it's definitely doing
something it's very exciting I yeah I
did the don't slash Global TV it worked
for me well I'm just added some stuff
yes it shows things when I type list
hello it points to world hello to points
to world to key points to value this is
a test I did cool what are we doing with
magical code I just don't know if if
this works like so I have like a
bootstrapper deployed for this and I
don't know if we will stay connected to
the bootstrapper little drunk
and I think it's on the regular ipfs
network so your view will connect to the
regular idea first night weird even
though it doesn't use it but I use it to
discover other beers and it may not work
very well as I said this was like very
very just getting it up right now it's
cool thank you for sharing welcome
you trick maybe we'll eventually
bootstrap to you and you can see my my
value for Diedrich it's there all righty
are you think I'm using keys as chat ah
I'm using it as pub/sub subscribe to
your name and I'll send you messages all
righty Allen uniting the files API tell
us more
okay I shall try just super quickly as
some of you I've been working on this
week and it's something that we've been
talking about since let's say like 2016
or so and so it's by far time to do it
but the idea is that we've got two
separate files api's we've got like a
root level file API for like adding
cutting and getting and we've got this
whole em FS thing and so idea was
proposed a long time ago to maybe
unite them and create 1:1 files API to
rule them all and so what I've been
working on this week it's not ready yet
but I just wanted to kind of I don't
know
say something things about it just for
fun but you know it ranges from like
maybe renaming ipfs add like import
because actually you're you're bringing
things in from the outside
and people often confuse add and write
because they're very similar in name and
you know when you're writing things
you're kind of adding things to IVFs to
so it's just difficult but it goes like
it it's a it's like tiny things like
that to like maybe when you're importing
stuff that stuff just gets cutting em FS
for you making it like easily
discoverable
it would also maybe help people with
understanding or not having to
understand the whole pinning concept
which is sort of alien to people who are
outside of the ipfs world so it ranges
from things like that and to like maybe
we should just stream all of the api's
because at the moment they're kind of
buffering and that's not great because
we have huge directories of things like
npm on ipfs we can't even use IIP FS LS
because it there's too much stuff in the
directory to LS like where your node
will run out of memory before it can
return the result to you so things like
we should stream those results not only
for LS but feel like when we getting
files out of IP FS or just King and the
values just help with that maybe and the
stuff like if we import things and we
add them to MF s by default maybe maybe
we could even remove the pin option for
maybe we could even remove this whole
rap with directory option because if we
add them to IDF to MF s they are kind of
wrapped in the directory already so I'm
kind of looking at things like that
and what else so stuff like cat IQ test
cat is cat a cat or does that does that
mean something to different people to
some people that is like the feline
animal and and maybe that could be
better named or at least have an alias
for something for sort of people who can
understand it a bit better and then
other things that I was looking at all
so maybe the ipfs interplanetary file
system all of the API methods that deal
with files should be at the root but why
should I have to write ipfs files read
when ipfs is a file system because I'm
basically saying IP f at file system
files read why not just ipfs read make
these make these things that are core
and important to ipfs front and center
and and available quickly to people
don't put barriers in their in their way
so I'm just working on this kind of
proposal for for things like this at the
same time trying not to not to change
things so that they're completely
completely different to how they were
before just make things better within
the boundaries of what we've already got
to some extent so it's not completely
different and that the the kind of Delta
between where we are now and where we
are there is kind of sensible for a
refactor so yeah that's all that's what
I've been working on and hopefully I'll
have an actual proposal that people can
read and look at and review soon and
hopefully it will make dealing with
files in ipfs a lot easier a whole lot
better for the future
that's awesome Thank You Alan I think
yeah we are we are way overdue for a V
whatever post version we're at which
takes all of the learnings from you know
what's worked well and and some things
that we've added over time that have
grown kind of as weird sideways arms
instead of nice organized branches so
that sounds phenomenal
Oh
just about out of time any any final
notes questions
but
stay tuned for a new personal tutorial
hopefully speaking of files terry has
just spent time documenting them yeah
thanks a lot Alan let's document the old
thing and then you can change it all and
they will happen to redo cue tutorials
instead of redoing one tutorial way to
go maybe two tutorials becomes one
tutorial in the future hmm
the magic you've written our road map
flora
go keep you busy okay good
it's good like I said we're gonna try
similar ones that sounds lovely
um one I usually I guess in the m FS one
at least maybe we haven't done in the
files one but if you like search the
code for the word gotcha you will find
thanks Terry thinks were silly about the
current API so I will check that out but
hopefully hopefully I've I've kind of
hope you have smoothed over some of
those cultures yes I think you
definitely mentioned things that were
strange to me but and the reckless
directory thing is a mind bender as you
know by the two of us having the same
conversation at least four times in the
past year yeah like a lot of other
things the that have been distilling and
have been informed by stuff that we've
done on protocol and as well as you know
conversations with yourself and and many
other people so yeah hopefully we'll
make it better
yeah and I think some of this stuff like
when you say should we change what cat
is like I'm a person who doesn't use the
command line very much and someone who
does use the command line what maybe
they do think that makes sense because
they've seen it before
whereas for me something like the word
right or the word which is normal verb
horses not that I'm suggesting those are
news for Kansas
all right well we are officially out of
time so everyone have a wonderful rest
of your Monday and see you next week
she has friends